they tell us coronaviruses a great
leveller it's not it's much much harder
if you're poor how do we stop at making
social inequality even greater
[Applause]
[Music]
hello good evening the language around
kovin 19 has sometimes felt trite and
misleading you do not survive the
illness through fortitude and strength
of character
whatever the Prime Minister's colleagues
will tell us and the disease is not a
great leveler the consequences of which
everyone rich or poor suffers the same
this is a myth which needs debunking
those hanging on the front line right
now bus drivers and shelf stackers
nurses care home workers hospital staff
and shopkeepers are disproportionately
the lower paid members of our workforce
they are more likely to catch the
disease because they are more exposed
those who live in tower blocks and small
flats will found the lock down tougher
those in manual jobs will be unable to
work from home this is a health issue
with huge ramifications for social
welfare and it's a welfare issue with
huge ramifications for Public Health
tonight as France goes into recession
and the World Trade Organization warns
the pandemic could provoke the deepest
economic downturn of our lifetimes we
asked what kind of social settlement
might need to be put in place to stop
the inequality becoming even more stark
one of the hardest things about dealing
in graphs and numbers statistics
target's flattening or rising curves as
the propensity to forget the names and
lives behind the growing death toll
tonight we want to remember some of
those who died whilst doing their job
there were not soldiers they didn't sign
up to a career in which they pledged to
give their lives they would not see
themselves as heroes but as ordinary
members of the public doing their work
at a time when it demanded immense
courage and kindness here are just some
of those key workers from all walks of
life we remember tonight
good night
[Music]
[Applause]
I'm speaking to you but what I know is
an increasingly challenging time I want
to thank everyone on the NHS front line
as well as care workers and those
carrying out a central roles who
selflessly continue their day-to-day
duties outside the home
[Music]
[Applause]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dog code at UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News